README.md, before:

# Automated build of HA k3s Cluster with `kube-vip` and MetalLB

![Fully Automated K3S etcd High Availability Install](https://img.youtube.com/vi/CbkEWcUZ7zM/0.jpg)

This playbook will build an HA Kubernetes cluster with `k3s`, `kube-vip` and MetalLB via `ansible`.

This is based on the work from [this fork](https://github.com/212850a/k3s-ansible) which is based on the work from [k3s-io/k3s-ansible](https://github.com/k3s-io/k3s-ansible). It uses [kube-vip](https://kube-vip.chipzoller.dev/) to create a load balancer for control plane, and [metal-lb](https://metallb.universe.tf/installation/) for its service `LoadBalancer`.

If you want more context on how this works, see:

📄 [Documentation](https://docs.technotim.live/posts/k3s-etcd-ansible/) (including example commands)

📺 [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CbkEWcUZ7zM)

## 📖 k3s Ansible Playbook

Build a Kubernetes cluster using Ansible with k3s. The goal is easily install a HA Kubernetes cluster on machines running:

- [X] Debian
- [X] Ubuntu
- [X] CentOS

on processor architecture:

- [X] x64
- [X] arm64
- [X] armhf

## ✅ System requirements

- Deployment environment must have Ansible 2.4.0+.  If you need a quick primer on Ansible [you can check out my docs and setting up Ansible](https://docs.technotim.live/posts/ansible-automation/).
- `server` and `agent` nodes should have passwordless SSH access, if not you can supply arguments to provide credentials `--ask-pass --ask-become-pass` to each command.

## 🚀 Getting Started

### 🍴 Preparation

First create a new directory based on the `sample` directory within the `inventory` directory:

```bash
cp -R inventory/sample inventory/my-cluster
```

Second, edit `inventory/my-cluster/hosts.ini` to match the system information gathered above

For example:

```ini
[master]
192.168.30.38
192.168.30.39
192.168.30.40

[node]
192.168.30.41
192.168.30.42

[k3s_cluster:children]
master
node
```

If multiple hosts are in the master group, the playbook will automatically set up k3s in [HA mode with etcd](https://rancher.com/docs/k3s/latest/en/installation/ha-embedded/).

This requires at least k3s version `1.19.1` however the version is configurable by using the `k3s_version` variable.

If needed, you can also edit `inventory/my-cluster/group_vars/all.yml` to match your environment.

### ☸️ Create Cluster

Start provisioning of the cluster using the following command:

```bash
ansible-playbook site.yml -i inventory/my-cluster/hosts.ini
```

After deployment control plane will be accessible via virtual ip-address which is defined in inventory/group_vars/all.yml as `apiserver_endpoint`

### 🔥 Remove k3s cluster

```bash
ansible-playbook reset.yml -i inventory/my-cluster/hosts.ini
```

>You should also reboot these nodes due to the VIP not being destroyed

## ⚙️ Kube Config

To copy your `kube config` locally so that you can access your **Kubernetes** cluster run:

```bash
scp debian@master_ip:~/.kube/config ~/.kube/config
```

### 🔨 Testing your cluster

See the commands [here](https://docs.technotim.live/posts/k3s-etcd-ansible/#testing-your-cluster).

### Troubleshooting

Be sure to see [this post](https://github.com/techno-tim/k3s-ansible/discussions/20) on how to troubleshoot common problems

### Testing the playbook using molecule

This playbook includes a [molecule](https://molecule.rtfd.io/)-based test setup.
It is run automatically in CI, but you can also run the tests locally.
This might be helpful for quick feedback in a few cases.
You can find more information about it [here](molecule/README.md).

## Thanks 🤝

This repo is really standing on the shoulders of giants.  To all those who have contributed.

Thanks to these repos for code and ideas:

- [k3s-io/k3s-ansible](https://github.com/k3s-io/k3s-ansible)
- [geerlingguy/turing-pi-cluster](https://github.com/geerlingguy/turing-pi-cluster)
- [212850a/k3s-ansible](https://github.com/212850a/k3s-ansible)

Commit message:

Add support for API servers on IPv6 addresses (#48)
* Remove duplicate file for deletion

* Add support for IPv6 clusters

To correctly escape IPv6 addresses when ports are used, they must be
wrapped in square brackets [1]. This patch adds support for that,
using Ansible's ipwrap filter [2].

[1]: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc4038#section-5.1
[2]: http://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/collections/ansible/utils/docsite/filters_ipaddr.html#wrapping-ipv6-addresses-in-brackets

* Do not abort other molecule jobs on failure

* Fix cache keys for Vagrant boxes

* Molecule: Derive overrides.yml location from scenario dir

# Conflicts:
#	molecule/default/molecule.yml
#	molecule/ipv6/molecule.yml

README.md, after:

# Automated build of HA k3s Cluster with `kube-vip` and MetalLB

![Fully Automated K3S etcd High Availability Install](https://img.youtube.com/vi/CbkEWcUZ7zM/0.jpg)

This playbook will build an HA Kubernetes cluster with `k3s`, `kube-vip` and MetalLB via `ansible`.

This is based on the work from [this fork](https://github.com/212850a/k3s-ansible) which is based on the work from [k3s-io/k3s-ansible](https://github.com/k3s-io/k3s-ansible). It uses [kube-vip](https://kube-vip.chipzoller.dev/) to create a load balancer for control plane, and [metal-lb](https://metallb.universe.tf/installation/) for its service `LoadBalancer`.

If you want more context on how this works, see:

📄 [Documentation](https://docs.technotim.live/posts/k3s-etcd-ansible/) (including example commands)

📺 [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CbkEWcUZ7zM)

## 📖 k3s Ansible Playbook

Build a Kubernetes cluster using Ansible with k3s. The goal is easily install a HA Kubernetes cluster on machines running:

- [X] Debian
- [X] Ubuntu
- [X] CentOS

on processor architecture:

- [X] x64
- [X] arm64
- [X] armhf

## ✅ System requirements

- Deployment environment must have Ansible 2.4.0+.  If you need a quick primer on Ansible [you can check out my docs and setting up Ansible](https://docs.technotim.live/posts/ansible-automation/).
  Furthermore, the [`netaddr` package](https://pypi.org/project/netaddr/) must be available to Ansible. If you have installed Ansible via apt, this is already taken care of. If you have installed Ansible via `pip`, make sure to install `netaddr` into the respective virtual environment.
- `server` and `agent` nodes should have passwordless SSH access, if not you can supply arguments to provide credentials `--ask-pass --ask-become-pass` to each command.

## 🚀 Getting Started

### 🍴 Preparation

First create a new directory based on the `sample` directory within the `inventory` directory:

```bash
cp -R inventory/sample inventory/my-cluster
```

Second, edit `inventory/my-cluster/hosts.ini` to match the system information gathered above

For example:

```ini
[master]
192.168.30.38
192.168.30.39
192.168.30.40

[node]
192.168.30.41
192.168.30.42

[k3s_cluster:children]
master
node
```

If multiple hosts are in the master group, the playbook will automatically set up k3s in [HA mode with etcd](https://rancher.com/docs/k3s/latest/en/installation/ha-embedded/).

This requires at least k3s version `1.19.1` however the version is configurable by using the `k3s_version` variable.

If needed, you can also edit `inventory/my-cluster/group_vars/all.yml` to match your environment.

### ☸️ Create Cluster

Start provisioning of the cluster using the following command:

```bash
ansible-playbook site.yml -i inventory/my-cluster/hosts.ini
```

After deployment control plane will be accessible via virtual ip-address which is defined in inventory/group_vars/all.yml as `apiserver_endpoint`

### 🔥 Remove k3s cluster

```bash
ansible-playbook reset.yml -i inventory/my-cluster/hosts.ini
```

>You should also reboot these nodes due to the VIP not being destroyed

## ⚙️ Kube Config

To copy your `kube config` locally so that you can access your **Kubernetes** cluster run:

```bash
scp debian@master_ip:~/.kube/config ~/.kube/config
```

### 🔨 Testing your cluster

See the commands [here](https://docs.technotim.live/posts/k3s-etcd-ansible/#testing-your-cluster).

### Troubleshooting

Be sure to see [this post](https://github.com/techno-tim/k3s-ansible/discussions/20) on how to troubleshoot common problems

### Testing the playbook using molecule

This playbook includes a [molecule](https://molecule.rtfd.io/)-based test setup.
It is run automatically in CI, but you can also run the tests locally.
This might be helpful for quick feedback in a few cases.
You can find more information about it [here](molecule/README.md).

## Thanks 🤝

This repo is really standing on the shoulders of giants.  To all those who have contributed.

Thanks to these repos for code and ideas:

- [k3s-io/k3s-ansible](https://github.com/k3s-io/k3s-ansible)
- [geerlingguy/turing-pi-cluster](https://github.com/geerlingguy/turing-pi-cluster)
- [212850a/k3s-ansible](https://github.com/212850a/k3s-ansible)
